#labels Phase-Implementation
= Projects using the Maven Android Plugin =
Sometimes we need a helping hand in seeing how other people are using software. Here is a list of people willing to share their maven files with you so you can see how they have successfully used the Maven Android plugin. 


===O-Auth for Android=== 
An OAuth dashboard and provider framework for Android
  * Developer: Novoda
  * [http://github.com/novoda/oauth_for_android]

===Mashmobile===
[http://www.mashmobile.com Mashmobile] builds a system that will enable a phone to be accessed using a URL. The Maven Android plugin is used to enable continuous integration, configuration management and cross IDE support.

If you want to see how we have configured Maven then please contact me. Our code base is not open source so I cannot provide it freely on the internet. You can reach me by email: tomas.malmsten at mashmobile.com.

===Simpligility Technologies===
[http://www.simpligity.com Simpligility Technologies] is using the Maven Android plugin for an Android application for a top 5 electronics reseller client.

===Others===

Juan Carlos - PomoTodo -  http://code.google.com/p/pomotodo/

Michael Burton - [http://code.google.com/p/roboguice/ RoboGuice] author, lots of applications using it

Robolectric [http://pivotal.github.com/robolectric/]

Robotium [http://code.google.com/p/robotium/]

Donn Felker, http://blog.donnfelker.com/, multi Android book author

Jake Wharton, author of ActionBarSherlock, http://actionbarsherlock.com
Fabrizio Giudici, author of blueBill Mobile, http://bluebill.tidalwave.it/mobile/