==Samples are not here==

 * Looking for samples?
 * Want to create Android applications with Maven?
 ** This "Source" page is *not* the place.

Go to --> [Samples] page instead :)

<br/>
==Source code of the plugin itself...==
...is further down on this page. Continue scrolling...
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>
<br/>

=What is this not?=

This source code page is only useful for developers of the maven-android-plugin, and for those who develop and maintain the samples.

All Android *application developers* (who want to copy and *use* the samples), please go to the [Samples] page instead, where you will get a version of the samples source code which use a released version of the maven-android-plugin.

--> [Samples] <-- Application developers, go there now

Plugin developers, continue reading...

<br/>
<br/>

==This source code==

We use Git instead of Subversion for managing the source code, [http://whygitisbetterthanx.com/ for several reasons].

The code on this page (Source) refers to the latest unreleased version. So if you are looking to use the samples' configuration as an example of how to set up an Android Maven application, don't use the version which you will get by clicking the links here. Instead, see the [Samples] page.

==Get the code!==

See this project's github pages:

 http://github.com/jayway/maven-android-plugin<br/>
 http://github.com/jayway/maven-android-plugin-samples

You can browse the source code there, and even download a zip with the source code! As you can see, the plugin itself is split up from the samples. They are in separate git repositories for technical release reasons.

To learn more about Git, see for example http://github.com/.

If you think you will want to edit something, fork the project on Github, and clone your own fork to your development machine, instead of cloning directly from the readonly jayway/maven-android-plugin repo.

==Configure your git correctly for contributions==
We accept only code contributions with LF as line-endings.

You can set up git to convert CRLF/LF automatically. According to the book [http://progit.org/book/ch7-1.html#coreautocrlf Pro Git chapter 7], set it up like this:
=== ...on Windows ===
{{{
git config --global core.autocrlf true
}}}
=== ...on Linux / Mac ===
{{{
git config --global core.autocrlf input
}}}


==Work on the right branch!==

Work happens on separate branches, which are branched off of the following listed ones.

For example, if you are fixing Issue 140, which applies to maven-android-plugin 2.9.0, create a separate branch for that, based on the maven-android-plugin-2.x branch. Like this:

{{{
git checkout maven-android-plugin-2.x
git checkout -b issue-140
}}}

This is especially important to be able to create good Pull Requests (see below).

===maven-android-plugin===

|| *maven-android-plugin-2.x* || *master* ||
|| Active integration branch for versions in the 2.x series of maven-android-plugin.<br/>Base your feature and bugfix branches off of this one, if you want your code to end up in version 2.9.0, 2.10.0 etc...<br/>Uses Maven 2.||Active integration branch for versions in the 3.x series of maven-android-plugin.<br/>Base your feature and bugfix branches off of this one, if your code changes the way anything existing works, so that existing builds may be affected. This includes for example renamed or removed parameters, or changing the behavior of an existing configuration parameter.<br/>Will require Maven 3, so any patches which require Maven 3 should go here as well.||	

===maven-android-plugin-samples===
|| *stable* || *beta* || *2.x-snapshot* || *master* ||
|| Samples in this branch use the latest non-beta release of maven-android-plugin.<br/>It is meant to be suitable for any user. || Samples in this branch use the latest release of maven-android-plugin, even if that version happens to be a beta version.<br/>It it meant to be used by users comfortable with running beta software. || Samples in this branch use the SNAPSHOT version in the maven-android-plugin-2.x branch of maven-android-plugin.<br/>This is mainly for testing the state of that branch. || Samples in this branch use the SNAPSHOT version in the master branch of maven-android-plugin.<br/>This is mainly for testing the state of that branch. ||


==Submit!==

===Via github===

Anybody can join in!

And anybody can submit code through github!

1. Go to http://github.com/jayway/maven-android-plugin and fork the project. Forking a source code repository is sooo easy on github!

2. Do your changes in your fork of the project, on a separate branch (see above), otherwise things may get screwed up,

3. Ensure that your changes do not break existing functionality by running the samples project build.

4. then click "Pull Request" on your repository to tell us there are changes to bring in.

===Sending patches===
You may of course also send patches directly through the [http://code.google.com/p/maven-android-plugin/issues/list Issue tracker] or mailing list [http://groups.google.com/group/maven-android-developers Maven Android Developers].